Welcome.
My name is James Phoenix, and I'll be leading you through this course on how to use cursor to effectively
speed up your development workflows.
What is cursor?
Well, cursor is actually a clone or a fork of VSCode.
So if you're using VSCode, it's basically got everything you know about now the extensions.
But they've built it in a way where it has an improved developer experience for working with AI and
tools for improving the software development experience and workflow.
Some of the key features that I think are really great about cursor is, for example, you can do multi
finalizing with Cursor Compose.
So you can create, update, delete and modify multiple files asynchronously.
And also it's got a codebase aware functionality in the chat assistant.
And also in every other part of cursor.
It will index your entire code base and it will respect your.
Gitignore file.
And then basically it will then intelligently rerank and retrieve relevant files to help answer those
queries.
It's very focused on AI code completion and generation.
And why should you be using it?
Well, it predicts all of your things that you naturally used to like copilot, but as well as that,
you can also use app referencing for files and folders.
If I go back a slide here, you can see on the right I can pull in entire files and folders or even
my code base.
And that's really useful because it speeds up your workflow.
Rather than manually copying and pasting, you can just immediately reference an entire file.
Other things that you can see here is you can pull in like custom documentation or GitHub repositories,
or even at the web.
So all of these things are really helped streamline the developer experience.
The other thing is it's a familiar environment.
You've been using potentially VS code before, and they have a great onboarding experience.
You also have the option to use your own API key.
Here are some of the main differences with cursor versus GitHub Copilot.
Both of these tools offer similar features, such as being able to do code completion and also code
suggestions.
But cursor is different from GitHub Copilot because it allows you to reference entire folders, reference
entire files, and also doing multiple file generation and reading multiple files becomes very easy
inside of cursor.
Also, the other main differentiation is that cursor is an entire IDE, which is a coding editor.
And that's different to GitHub Copilot, which is actually a VSCode extension.
In the next video, we're going to have a look at how you can sign up and also how you can download
cursor.